chore: eight week cadence change blog post (#5463)
electron/electronjs.org: data/blog/8-week-cadence.md

---
title: New Electron Release Cadence
author: VerteDinde
date: '2021-07-01'
---

Beginning in 2022, Electron will release a new major stable version every 8 weeks.

---

In 2019, Electron moved to a 12 week release cycle to match Chromium's 6 week release cycle. In the spring, Chromium announced that it would further speed up that cycle.

> Chrome now plans to release a new milestone every 4 weeks, starting with Chrome 94 in Q3 of 2021. In turn, the Electron team is updating our major release cadence to match. Beginning in 2022, Electron will release a new major stable version every 8 weeks.

Reviewer: We should add this link
Chrome's release change announcement: https://blog.chromium.org/2021/03/speeding-up-release-cycle.html

Reviewer 2: Would it make sense to say the first Electron version and date that will have an 8 week release cycle?
I think that's an important piece of information and it is at the end of the post.

Author: @sofianguy @molant Good points for both, will add the link and point out the first Electron version/date!

## Why Change the Cadence?

Why are we making this change? Simply put, Chromium doesn't stop shipping, and Electron wants to match the pace.

Previously, Chromium releases on a consistent 6-week [schedule](https://chromiumdash.appspot.com/schedule). To deliver the most up-to-date versions of Chromium in Electron, our schedule needs to track theirs. More information around Chromium's release cycle can be found [here](https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src/+/master/docs/process/release_cycle.md).

Every new Chromium release contains new features, bug fixes / security fixes, and V8 improvements. We want you, as app developers, to have these changes in a timely manner, so our stable release dates will continue to match every other Chromium stable release.

As an app developer, you'll have access to new Chromium and V8 features and fixes sooner than before.

## Addressing Concerns 

There's a reason we're publishing this post well before the first 8 week release cycle is scheduled. We know that a faster release cycle will have a real impact on Electron apps - some of which may already find our major release cadence aggressive.

We've tried to address common concerns below:

> ### ❓ The existing 12 week release schedule already moves quickly. What steps are the team taking to make upgrading easier?
> One plus of more frequent releases is having _smaller_ releases. We understand that upgrading Electron's major versions can be difficult; we hope that, by releasing more frequently, we can introduce fewer major Chromium and Node changes, as well as fewer breaking changes, per release.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### ❓ The existing 12 week release schedule already moves quickly. What steps are the team taking to make upgrading easier?

One plus of more frequent releases is having _smaller_ releases. We understand that upgrading Electron's major versions can be difficult; we hope that, by releasing more frequently, we can introduce fewer major Chromium and Node changes, as well as fewer breaking changes, per release.
```

### ❓ Will Electron extend the number of supported LTS versions?

We'll continue to support the latest three major versions, as well as a beta and nightly release.

> 

Reviewer: Suggestion: We can add a link to the supported versions doc? https://www.electronjs.org/docs/tutorial/support#supported-versions

Author: Added in the FAQ section, with a table.

## What does this mean for my Electron app?

Below is the planned release cycle for the next four major releases of Electron:

| Electron  | Chromium   | Release     | Weeks Cycle |
| --------- | ---------- | ----------- | ----------- |

> | E14       | M93        | 2021-08-24  | 13          |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| E14       | M93        | 2021-08-31  | 14          |
```

> | E15       | M96        | 2021-11-09  | 11          |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| E15       | M96        | 2021-11-16  | 11          |
```

> | E16       | M98        | 2022-01-25  | 11          |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| E16       | M98        | 2022-02-01  | 11          |
```

> | E17       | M100       | 2022-03-22  | 8           |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| E17       | M100       | 2022-03-29  | 8           |
```

> The Electron team will [continue to support](https://electronjs.org/docs/tutorial/support#supported-versions) the latest three major versions. For example, when [v17.0.0 goes stable on March 22, 2022](https://electronjs.org/docs/tutorial/electron-timelines#600-release-schedule), we will support v17.x, v16.x, and v15.x, while v14.x will reach End-Of-Life.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Electron team will [continue to support](https://electronjs.org/docs/tutorial/support#supported-versions) the latest three major versions. For example, when [v17.0.0 goes stable on March 29, 2022](https://electronjs.org/docs/tutorial/electron-timelines#600-release-schedule), we will support v17.x, v16.x, and v15.x, while v14.x will reach End-Of-Life.
```

[is it worth re-opening the App Feedback Program?]

## Questions?

> 📨 If you have questions or concerns, please mail us at [info@electronjs.org](mailto:info@electronjs.org). Feedback is important to us, and we want to hear from you!

Reviewer 2: Do we want to mention discord here? Don't know how many people have access to that email.

Author: We don't, but we should - I'll add a mention of the Discord and the invite link 🙂

### ❓ Will Electron extend the number of supported LTS versions?

We'll continue to support the latest three major versions, as well as a beta and nightly release.

## What does this mean for my Electron app?

Below is the planned release cycle for the next four major releases of Electron:

| Electron  | Chromium   | Release     | Weeks Cycle |
| --------- | ---------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| E14       | M93        | 2021-08-31  | 14          |
| E15       | M96        | 2021-11-16  | 11          |
| E16       | M98        | 2022-02-01  | 11          |
| E17       | M100       | 2022-03-29  | 8           |

The Electron team will [continue to support](https://electronjs.org/docs/tutorial/support#supported-versions) the latest three major versions. For example, when [v17.0.0 goes stable on March 29, 2022](https://electronjs.org/docs/tutorial/electron-timelines#600-release-schedule), we will support v17.x, v16.x, and v15.x, while v14.x will reach End-Of-Life.

> [is it worth re-opening the App Feedback Program?]

Reviewer: Probably no. We retired the program early last year.

Author: Yeah, I'll just remove this 👍

---
title: New Electron Release Cadence
author: VerteDinde

> date: '2021-07-01'

Reviewer: Remember to change this to whenever we publish

---
title: New Electron Release Cadence
author: VerteDinde
date: '2021-07-14'
---

Beginning in September 2021, Electron will release a new major stable version every 8 weeks.

---

> In 2019, Electron moved to a 12 week release cycle to match Chromium's 6 week release cycle. Recently, both Chrome and Microsoft announced changes that made us reconsider Electron's current release cadence:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In 2019, Electron [moved to a 12 week release cycle](https://www.electronjs.org/blog/12-week-cadence) to match Chromium's 6 week release cycle. Recently, both Chrome and Microsoft announced changes that made us reconsider Electron's current release cadence:
```

1. Chromium plans to [release a new milestone every **4 weeks**, starting with Chrome 94 on September 21st, 2021.](https://blog.chromium.org/2021/03/speeding-up-release-cycle.html) This release cadence also adds a new Extended Stable option every 8 weeks, which will contain all updated security fixes.

> 2. The Microsoft Store will [require Chromium-based apps to be no older than within 2 major versions](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/uwp/publish/store-policies#102-security) (for example, if the latest released major version of Chromium is 85, any browser based on Chromium must be on at least Chromium version 83 or higher). This rule includes Electron apps.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. The Microsoft Store will [require Chromium-based apps to be no older than within 2 major versions](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/uwp/publish/store-policies#102-security). As an example, if the latest released major version of Chromium is 85, any browser based on Chromium must be on at least Chromium version 83 or higher. **This rule includes Electron apps.**
```

Reviewer 3: Did this because it's nice to not have entire ideas that can stand on their own in parentheticals. Also, it's nice to boldface that Electron apps are incldued imo.

The alpha channel build will ship for **Electron 15** on **July 20th, 2021**. It will transition to a beta release on **September 1st, 2021**  with a stable release target of **September 21st, 2021**. Subsequent Electron releases will not have alpha releases.

## 2021 Plan for Releases

Below is our current release schedule for 2021:

| Electron | Chrome | Alpha Release | Beta Release | Stable Release | Stable Cycle (Weeks) |
| -------- | ------ | ----- | ---- | ------ | -------- |
| E13 | M91 | -          | 2021-Mar-05 | 2021-May-25 | 12 |
| E14 | M93 | -          | 2021-May-26 | 2021-Aug-31 | 14 |
| E15 | M94 | 2021-Jul-20 | 2021-Sep-01 | 2021-Sep-21 | 9 (includes alpha) |
| E16 | M96 |  - | 2021-Sep-22 | 2021-Nov-16 | 8 |
| E17 | M98 |  - | 2021-Nov-17 | 2022-Feb-01 | 11 |

Adding the alpha channel extends the development time before Electron 15's launch from 3 weeks to 9 weeks - closer to our new 8 week cycle, while still meeting the requirements for Windows Store submission.

> To further help app developers, **for the remainder of 2021, we will also be extending our supported versions policy from the latest 3 versions to the latest 4 versions of Electron.** That means that even if you can't immediately alter your upgrade schedule, older versions of Electron will still receive security updates and fixes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To further help app developers, **for the remainder of 2021 until May 2022, we will also be extending our supported versions policy from the latest 3 versions to the latest 4 versions of Electron.** That means that even if you can't immediately alter your upgrade schedule, older versions of Electron will still receive security updates and fixes.
```

Author: D'oh, missed that one - thanks!

Every new Chromium release contains new features, bug fixes / security fixes, and V8 improvements. We want you, as app developers, to have these changes in a timely manner, so our stable release dates will continue to match every other Chromium stable release. As an app developer, you'll have access to new Chromium and V8 features and fixes sooner than before.

#### ❓ The existing 12 week release schedule already moves quickly. What steps are the team taking to make upgrading easier?

One advantage of more frequent releases is having _smaller_ releases. We understand that upgrading Electron's major versions can be difficult. We hope that smaller releases will introduce fewer major Chromium and Node changes, as well as fewer breaking changes, per release.

#### ❓ Will there been an alpha release available for future Electron versions?

There are no plans to support a permanent alpha release at this time. This alpha is only intended for Electron 15, as a way to help developers upgrade more easily in the shortened release period.

#### ❓ Will Electron extend the number of supported versions?

> Yes, we will also be extending our supported version policy from the latest three versions to the latest four versions of Electron until May 2022, with the release of Electron 19. After Electron 19 is released, we'll return to [supporting the latest three major versions](https://www.electronjs.org/docs/tutorial/support#supported-versions), as well as the beta and nightly releases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will be extending our supported version policy from the latest three versions to the latest four versions of Electron until May 2022, with the release of Electron 19. After Electron 19 is released, we'll return to [supporting the latest three major versions](https://www.electronjs.org/docs/tutorial/support#supported-versions), as well as the beta and nightly releases.
```

It's kind of a yes *and* no type answer 😅

---
title: New Electron Release Cadence
author: VerteDinde
date: '2021-07-14'
---

Beginning in September 2021, Electron will release a new major stable version every 8 weeks.

---

In 2019, Electron moved to a 12 week release cycle to match Chromium's 6 week release cycle. Recently, both Chrome and Microsoft announced changes that made us re-consider Electron's current release cadence:

> 1. Chromium plans to [release a new milestone every **4 weeks**, starting with Chrome 94 on September 21st, 2021.](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/faster-release-cycle/) This release cadence also adds a new Extended Stable option every 8 weeks, which will contain all updated security fixes.

Author: Updated!

2. The Microsoft Store will [require Chromium-based apps to be no older than within 2 major versions](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/uwp/publish/store-policies#102-security) (for example, if the latest released major version of Chromium is 85, any browser based on Chromium must be on at least Chromium version 83 or higher). This rule includes Electron apps.

**Beginning in September 2021, Electron will release a new major stable version every 8 weeks**, to match Chromium's 8 week Extended Stable releases.

Our first release with Chromium Extended Stable will be **Electron 15** on **September 21st, 2021**.

However, this change will also impact the remainder of our 2021 releases, and we wanted to let our developer community know as soon as possible. Read on for more details about our 2021 release schedule.

## Moving to Extended Stable

Given that our original Electron 15 release targeted a non-Extended Stable version (Chromium's Extended Stable versions are based on their even-numbered versions), but Electron apps must use the most recent 2 major versions of Chromium in their apps, our Releases WG faced a timing dilemma. 

> Below was the initial planned release schedule for 2021:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below is our planned release schedule for 2021:
```
Suggestion for more definite language

> Below is the planned release schedule for 2021:

Reviewer 4: The wording here doesn't differentiate itself very much from the "current release schedule" section below. Someone skimming the tables might get confused.

Reviewer: This is a good point. Maybe we can combine the tables or use one of them 🤔 

Suggestion:
* Delete first table from ##Moving to Extended Stable section. Replace with something like "E15 will target a single chromium bump to M94."
* Keep second table in ## 2021 Plan for Releases as is. It's more descriptive and has almost the same info as the first table.

Author: Done! Removed the table and section, kept the note about why we needed to do the single Chromium bump.

| Electron | Chrome | Release | Beta to Stable (Weeks) |
| -------- | ------ | ------- | ----- |
| E13 | M91 | 2021-May-25 |  12  |
| E14 | M93 | 2021-Aug-31 |  14  |
| E15 | M94 | 2021-Sep-21 |  3  |
| E16 | M96 | 2021-Nov-16 |  8  |
| E17 | M98 | 2022-Feb-01 |  11  |

Moving Electron 15 to include Chromium M94 would allow app developers to get on the very first Extended Stable version of Chromium - however, it would also shorten the beta-to-stable cycle to only 3 weeks. Yikes!

We've received feedback from the Electron community in the past that our release cycle was already aggressive, and we didn't want to put Electron developers in a position where they felt rushed to update your app.

## Enter the Alpha Channel

> To help with this switchover, Electron will begin offering an **alpha build**, one that will contain [the current Chromium Dev build version](https://chromiumdash.appspot.com/releases?platform=Mac). The alpha build will allow developers to test drive changes earlier, without needing to download more unstable nightlies. For the switchover to Chromium's new cadence, adding an alpha build would allow developers more time to test and plan for a shortened upgrade, with a more stable build.

Reviewer 5: This is tricky phrasing, because this will currently only impact v15, and technically speaking our betas already cover dev versions of Chromium.  The only reason we need alpha here is the overlap

Author: Ahhh, so I might have misunderstood here - we're only doing a single alpha for the 15 release, not long-term?

Reviewer 5: I want to do it longer term, but we don't have consensus on that as an idea and we need to prioritize 15 rather than this Nice To Have future.

So yeah, currently the alpha concept is a 15 one-shot

Reviewer: Thanks Sam. Do you think we should communicate that E15 is sort a test run for future alpha potential? Or, too complicated?

Author: IMO, but I think I'm going to draft this initially as just a one shot so we don't potentially tease something that we end up not doing; depending on input from the rest of the group, we can modify that 🙂

> The alpha channel build will ship for **Electron 15** on **July 20th, 2021**. It will transition to a beta release on **September 1st, 2021**  with a stable release target of **September 21st, 2021**. With each subsequent Electron release, alphas will be released alongside beta releases for their respective versions.

Reviewer 4: > With each subsequent Electron release, alphas will be released alongside beta releases for their respective versions.

Does "With each subsequent Electron release" here mean each subsequent Electron release only for the Electron 15 line? We should make this explicit.

Reviewer: I think this is leftover from cleaning up the post to be that E15 is a one-shot thing for alpha.

> The alpha channel build will ship for **Electron 15** on **July 20th, 2021**. It will transition to a beta release on **September 1st, 2021**  with a stable release target of **September 21st, 2021**. With each subsequent Electron release, alphas will be released alongside beta releases for their respective versions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The alpha channel build will ship for **Electron 15** on **July 20th, 2021**. It will transition to a beta release on **September 1st, 2021**  with a stable release target of **September 21st, 2021**.
```

## 2021 Plan for Releases

Below is our current release schedule for 2021:

| Electron | Chrome | Alpha Release | Beta Release | Stable Release | Stable Cycle (Weeks) |
| -------- | ------ | ----- | ---- | ------ | -------- |
| E13 | M91 | -          | 2021-Mar-05 | 2021-May-25 | 12 |
| E14 | M93 | -          | 2021-May-26 | 2021-Aug-31 | 14 |
| E15 | M94 | 2021-Jul-20 | 2021-Sep-01 | 2021-Sep-21 | 9 (includes alpha) |
| E16 | M96 |  - | 2021-Sep-22 | 2021-Nov-16 | 8 |
| E17 | M98 |  - | 2021-Nov-17 | 2022-Feb-01 | 11 |

Adding the alpha channel extends the development time before Electron 15's launch from 3 weeks to 9 weeks - closer to our new 8 week cycle, while still meeting the requirements for Windows Store submission.

> To further help app developers, **for the remainder of 2021, we will also be extending our supported versions policy from the latest 3 versions to the latest 4 versions of Electron.** That means that even if you can't immediately alter your upgrade schedule, older versions of Electron will still receive security updates and fixes.

Reviewer 6: Erick's got a comment to a similar effect, so no point in keeping both unresolved

## Addressing Concerns 

There's a reason we're publishing this post well before this release cycle change is scheduled. We know that a faster release cycle will have a real impact on Electron apps - some of which may already find our major release cadence aggressive.

We've tried to address common concerns below:

#### ❓ Why even make this change? Why not keep the 12 week release cadence?

To deliver the most up-to-date versions of Chromium in Electron, our schedule needs to track theirs. More information around Chromium's release cycle can be found [here](https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src/+/master/docs/process/release_cycle.md).

> Every new Chromium release contains new features, bug fixes / security fixes, and V8 improvements. We want you, as app developers, to have these changes in a timely manner, so our stable release dates will continue to match every other Chromium stable release. As an app developer, you'll have access to new Chromium and V8 features and fixes sooner than before.

Author: Yeah, that's a great idea - adding a quick explainer here!

#### ❓ The existing 12 week release schedule already moves quickly. What steps are the team taking to make upgrading easier?

> One plus of more frequent releases is having _smaller_ releases. We understand that upgrading Electron's major versions can be difficult; we hope that, by releasing more frequently, we can introduce fewer major Chromium and Node changes, as well as fewer breaking changes, per release.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
One advantage of more frequent releases is having _smaller_ releases. We understand that upgrading Electron's major versions can be difficult; we hope that, by releasing more frequently, we can introduce fewer major Chromium and Node changes, as well as fewer breaking changes, per release.
```

> #### ❓ Will Electron extend the number of supported LTS versions?

Reviewer 5: We dont have LTS, let's just call this "Supported"

> For the remainder of 2021, we will also be extending our supported version policy from the latest three versions to the latest four versions of Electron. When the 8 week cadence begins in 2022, we'll continue to [support the latest three major versions](https://www.electronjs.org/docs/tutorial/support#supported-versions), as well as the beta, alpha and nightly release.

Reviewer 4: Follow-up: we should write a note in the linked doc.

Author: CONTRIBUTING change here: https://github.com/electron/electron/pull/30115
@sofianguy is changing Supported Versions, will also link that PR to merge after this blog is published.
